README.md, before:

# Semi-Emperical Quantum Mechanics

Semi-Emperical Quantum Mechanics Code for closed shell molecules with pytorch

## Method Implemented:
1. MNDO
2. AM1
3. PM3

## Packages Required:
```
pytorch 1.2
```

## Author:

Guoqing Zhou
guoqingz@usc.edu


## Structure:

# ./test/test*.py : testing example
1. ./test1.py : example to get Fock matrix, energy etc, and backward
2. ./test2.py : example to get force
3. ./test3.py : example for geometry optimization
4. ./test4.py : example for molecular dynamcies (NVE, NVT)
5. ./test5.py : example for how to add trained parameters for the calculation
6. ./test6/test6.py : example to verify the force computed from the code
==> autograd.grad and backward are working now
7. ./test7/test7.py : example to verify the gradient on parameters
8. ./test8.py : XL-BOMD
9. ./test9.py : NVE, compared with test8.py
10. ./test10  : Nanostar 884 atoms, XL-BOMD
11. ./test11.py : test scf_backward recursive formula
12. ./test12.py : second order gradient
13. ./test13 : check gradient of orbital energy on parameters
14. ./test14 : check gradient of orbital energy on coordinates

./params/MOPAC : MNDO/AM1/PM3 parameters from MOPAC7.1

./seqm : seqm module  
├── basics.py                                  : collections of classes for perform basic operations  
├── MolecularDynamics.py                       : geometry optimization and NVE and Langevin Molecular Dyanmics  
├── XLBOMD.py                                  : XL-BOMD  
└── seqm_functions                             :  
    ├── cal_par.py                             : compute dipole/qutrupole charge separation and additive terms rho1 and rho2  
    ├── constants.py                           : store some constant parameters  
    ├── data_loader.py                         : load and prepare dataset from numpy array, not updated  
    ├── diag.py                                : diagonalization functions, where pseudo_diag is not used  
    ├── diat_overlap.py                        : get overlap integrals  
    ├── energy.py                              : compute various energies  
    ├── fock.py                                : construct Fockian  
    ├── hcore.py                               : construct Hcore  
    ├── pack.py                                : functions to deal with the padding in batch of matrix  
    ├── parameters.py                          : load parameters from structured csv files as in ./params/MOPAC  
    ├── scf_loop.py                            : perform SCF procedure  
    ├── SP2.py                                 : single particle density matrix expansion algorithm SP2  
    ├── two_elec_two_center_int_local_frame.py : compute two electron two center integrals in local frame for each pair of atoms  
    └── two_elec_two_center_int.py             : rotate and get two electron two center integrals in global frame  

basics.py  
  class Parser : prepare data in the form for other parts, similar to ./seqm/seqm_functions/data_loader  
  class Pack_Parameters : combine parameters provided (like from ML) with other required ones loaded using ./seqm/seqm_functions/parameters.py from ./params/MOPAC  
  class Hamiltonian : assemble functions in seqm/seqm_functions, perform SCF and construct Fockian  
  class Energy : get energies based on Hamiltonian (total energy, heat of formation, nuclear energies, etc)  
  class Force : use torch.autograd.grad to get gradient of total energy on coordinates to get force  

MolecularDynamics.py  
  class Geometry_Optimization_SD : geometry optimization with steepest descend  
  class Molecular_Dynamics_Basic : NVE MD  
  class Molecular_Dynamics_Langevin : NVT with Langevin thermostat  
  class Geometry_Optimization_SD_LS : geometry optimization using linear search based on steepest descend, not finished  
  class Molecular_Dynamics_Nose_Hoover : NVT with Nose Hoover, not finished  

XLBOMD.py  
  class EnergyXL : get energies based on XL-BOMD  
  class ForceXL : get force with XL-BOMD  
  class XL_BOMD : module to perform XL-BOMD  

./huckel : extended Huckel theory, still need parameters for computing overlap and construct Fockian

## Caution:

1. atoms in molecules are sorted in descending order based on atomic number
2. 0 padding is used for atoms in molecules
```
   NH3 ==> [7,1,1,1], H2O ==> [8,1,1,0]
```
3. indexing for atoms works with or without padding atom
```
   [[7,1,1,1],[[7,1,1,0],[7,1,1,1]]  ==> index [0,1,2,3,4,5,6,8,9,10,11]
   [[7,1,1,1],[[7,1,1,0],[7,1,1,1]]  ==> index [0,1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10]
```

## Suggestions:
1. Benchmark convergence criteria eps for SCF and SP2, eps_sp2 will affect number of iterations for SCF
2. in general set converger=[2], combining adaptive mixing and pulay seems takes fewest iterations
3. when on GPU, use SP2, on CPU don't use SP2, but benchmark to check


## Citation
Zhou, G., Nebgen B., Lubbers, N., Malone, W., Niklasson, A. & Tretiak S. GPU-Accelerated Semi-Empirical Born Oppenheimer Molecular Dynamics using PyTorch, submitted

Commit message:

add test on second order gradient

README.md, after:

# Semi-Emperical Quantum Mechanics

Semi-Emperical Quantum Mechanics Code for closed shell molecules with pytorch

## Method Implemented:
1. MNDO
2. AM1
3. PM3

## Packages Required:
```
pytorch (tested with 1.2 and 1.5)
```

## Author:

Guoqing Zhou
guoqingz@usc.edu


## Structure:

# ./test/test*.py : testing example
1. ./test1.py : example to get Fock matrix, energy etc, and backward
2. ./test2.py : example to get force
3. ./test3.py : example for geometry optimization
4. ./test4.py : example for molecular dynamcies (NVE, NVT)
5. ./test5.py : example for how to add trained parameters for the calculation
6. ./test6/test6.py : example to verify the force computed from the code
==> autograd.grad and backward are working now
7. ./test7/test7.py : example to verify the gradient on parameters
8. ./test8.py : XL-BOMD
9. ./test9.py : NVE, compared with test8.py
10. ./test10  : Nanostar 884 atoms, XL-BOMD
11. ./test11.py : test scf_backward recursive formula
12. ./test12.py : second order gradient
13. ./test13 : check gradient of orbital energy on parameters
14. ./test14 : check gradient of orbital energy on coordinates
15. ./test15 : check the second order gradients, test with gradient of force on coordinates

./params/MOPAC : MNDO/AM1/PM3 parameters from MOPAC7.1

./seqm : seqm module  
├── basics.py                                  : collections of classes for perform basic operations  
├── MolecularDynamics.py                       : geometry optimization and NVE and Langevin Molecular Dyanmics  
├── XLBOMD.py                                  : XL-BOMD  
└── seqm_functions                             :  
    ├── cal_par.py                             : compute dipole/qutrupole charge separation and additive terms rho1 and rho2  
    ├── constants.py                           : store some constant parameters  
    ├── data_loader.py                         : load and prepare dataset from numpy array, not updated  
    ├── diag.py                                : diagonalization functions, where pseudo_diag is not used  
    ├── diat_overlap.py                        : get overlap integrals  
    ├── energy.py                              : compute various energies  
    ├── fock.py                                : construct Fockian  
    ├── hcore.py                               : construct Hcore  
    ├── pack.py                                : functions to deal with the padding in batch of matrix  
    ├── parameters.py                          : load parameters from structured csv files as in ./params/MOPAC  
    ├── scf_loop.py                            : perform SCF procedure  
    ├── SP2.py                                 : single particle density matrix expansion algorithm SP2  
    ├── two_elec_two_center_int_local_frame.py : compute two electron two center integrals in local frame for each pair of atoms  
    └── two_elec_two_center_int.py             : rotate and get two electron two center integrals in global frame  

basics.py  
  class Parser : prepare data in the form for other parts, similar to ./seqm/seqm_functions/data_loader  
  class Pack_Parameters : combine parameters provided (like from ML) with other required ones loaded using ./seqm/seqm_functions/parameters.py from ./params/MOPAC  
  class Hamiltonian : assemble functions in seqm/seqm_functions, perform SCF and construct Fockian  
  class Energy : get energies based on Hamiltonian (total energy, heat of formation, nuclear energies, etc)  
  class Force : use torch.autograd.grad to get gradient of total energy on coordinates to get force  

MolecularDynamics.py  
  class Geometry_Optimization_SD : geometry optimization with steepest descend  
  class Molecular_Dynamics_Basic : NVE MD  
  class Molecular_Dynamics_Langevin : NVT with Langevin thermostat  
  class Geometry_Optimization_SD_LS : geometry optimization using linear search based on steepest descend, not finished  
  class Molecular_Dynamics_Nose_Hoover : NVT with Nose Hoover, not finished  

XLBOMD.py  
  class EnergyXL : get energies based on XL-BOMD  
  class ForceXL : get force with XL-BOMD  
  class XL_BOMD : module to perform XL-BOMD  

./huckel : extended Huckel theory, still need parameters for computing overlap and construct Fockian

## Caution:

1. atoms in molecules are sorted in descending order based on atomic number
2. 0 padding is used for atoms in molecules
```
   NH3 ==> [7,1,1,1], H2O ==> [8,1,1,0]
```
3. indexing for atoms works with or without padding atom
```
   [[7,1,1,1],[[7,1,1,0],[7,1,1,1]]  ==> index [0,1,2,3,4,5,6,8,9,10,11]
   [[7,1,1,1],[[7,1,1,0],[7,1,1,1]]  ==> index [0,1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10]
```

## Suggestions:
1. Benchmark convergence criteria eps for SCF and SP2, eps_sp2 will affect number of iterations for SCF
2. in general set converger=[2], combining adaptive mixing and pulay seems takes fewest iterations
3. when on GPU, use SP2, on CPU don't use SP2, but benchmark to check


## Citation
Zhou, G., Nebgen B., Lubbers, N., Malone, W., Niklasson, A. & Tretiak S. GPU-Accelerated Semi-Empirical Born Oppenheimer Molecular Dynamics using PyTorch, submitted
